---
title: "Aftermath and Adaptation: Abd el-Kader to the Zouaves and Turcos in Popular Print"
layout: case
permalink: /algeria/aftermath-and-adaptation.html
case-id: "4"
---

Costume became a powerful tool in the civilizing
mission of French colonizers. The Zouave uniform
represented a folkloric costume for the
post-revolutionary empire that the French aspired to
build. French armies recruited hundreds of soldiers
from African colonies. Zouaves — alongside North
African turcos, spahis and tirailleurs — initially
formed their own battalions, but they soon
intermingled with the French troops on the battlefield
in the Crimean War, the Italian Campaign and the
Franco-Prussian War. By the 1840s, the majority of
Zouaves were non-African soldiers. Additionally, stage
performers from Europe, British West India, Russia,
and the United States (to name a few) adopted Zouave
costumes in theatrical performances. The ethnic
ambiguity of Zouave uniforms allowed wearers to
perform racial, ethnic and gender crossing, which
projected fantasies of prowess embodied by former
antagonists and colonized soldiers while emulating
their athleticism and liberality. This adaptation of
Algerian dress supported new narratives of
colonization in an institutionalized form of
orientalism known as imperial liberalism.
