---
title: Costumes and Customs Documented Through Barbary Captivity and Trade Accounts
layout: case
permalink: /algeria/costumes-and-customs
item-tag: algeria-costumes
---

The visual histories of Algeria leading up to the
French invasion of 1830 illustrate the blurred line
between the concepts of custom and costume in the
premodern world. In the Algerian Regency before 1830,
the dey, the local head of government elected by
Janissary officers, ruled over this Ottoman-controlled
region. Meanwhile, beys governed the three
sub-provinces of Constantine, Oran, and Titteri under
the dey's authority. To receive imperial investiture
as a new bey or dey, a senior official from the
regency submitted his application with an array of
gifts in person before the Sublime Porte, or central
government, in the Ottoman capital of Constantinople.
The Ottomans then sent their own official (kapıcı) to
the regency to confirm the investiture in a lavish
ceremony, during which the dey would receive robes of
honor and a sultanic gift, such as a gem-encrusted
dagger or sword. Just as these sartorially infused
traditions defined rulership on the Barbary Coast,
foreigners also merged custom and costume to document
all they learned about their formidable Mediterranean
adversaries. After 1830, the French would also use
costume and uniform to assert their power over these
colonized peoples.
