---
title: Orientalist Legacies of Algeria in the American Civil War
layout: case
permalink: /algeria/orientalist-legacies/
case-id: "5"
---

Approximately 30,000 soldiers fought as Zouaves in the
American Civil War, primarily a part of volunteer
militia units rather than professional battalions.
Much like the French, Americans praised Zouave
uniforms for their practicality, which freed soldiers
from the restrictions of traditional infantry attire
and gave them greater mobility. This transatlantic
adaptation transformed a fighting force created from
the subjugation of North Africa into a new image of
alterity, which appealed to the expansionist United
States, defined by racial politics of slavery. Much
like their European counterparts, popular theatrical
incarnations of this costume, known as zouaverie, also
emerged across the U.S. Some Americans, however, did
not forget the Zouave origins in the French conquest
of Algeria. By the early post-war era, Black militia
companies embraced the Zouave uniform as an emblem of
an African military tradition. The Hannibal Zouaves,
founded in Chicago in 1868, adopted this attire to
assert an African martial lineage in public enactments
of Black citizenship.
