---
title: 1857 Uprising in Press and Popular Sentiment
layout: case
permalink: /india/press-and-popular-sentiment
case-id: "7"
---

The British East India Company (BEIC) overwhelmingly
recruited sepoys from northern India, followed by
Madras and Bombay. Particularly in Bengal, British
service had become a respected and privileged
hereditary occupation. Yet that dynamic buckled as the
British imposed new conditions, such as demands for
overseas service and slower promotions, to name a few.
Varied issues compounded with grievances, including a
ban on caste markings and distinctions, as well as the
issuance of cartridges reportedly greased with pig and
cow fat that had to be opened with one’s teeth, an
affront to Muslims and Hindus. Offenses of Indian
values across socio-religious demographics helped
galvanize the sepoy resistance as the BEIC lost the
confidence of the Indian army that it had built. Rebel
sepoys challenged British forces to restore the Mughal
Empire under Bahadur Shah II (r. 1837–57) and to
extend his rule throughout India. Americans, observing
these events during their travels or from home,
offered mixed responses. Some deplored the racial
inequities of the BEIC, while others demonstrated
growing sympathy for the British as they quelled
uprisings that pitched Indians against their brethren,
mirroring the growing dynamics in the United States
leading up to the Civil War.
